docs: improve jobs docs (#36)
equinor/dm-docs: docs/docs/concepts/jobs.md

sidebar_position: 6
---

> In the development framework, a "job" is a python script that will run and produce some result. Often, the python script will save the result of a job to an entity stored in DMSS. Jobs can be handled with [dm-job](https://github.com/equinor/dm-job).

Reviewer: The formulation "python script" makes me think of a python file, not inline python code in a class. Perhaps rephrase to 
```suggestion
In the development framework, a "job" is a piece of python code that will run and produce some result. Often, the job will save the result to an entity stored in DMSS. Jobs can be handled with [dm-job](https://github.com/equinor/dm-job).
```

- Get result from a job

If your custom application want to run a job using dm-job, you have to 
1) Create a JobHandler python file for your job.

> 2) Create a job entity for the job of type `dmss://WorkflowDS/Blueprints/Job`. The job entity you create must be available in dmss, for example by uploading your job entity with the document add DMSS endpoint.

Reviewer: This sounds more coplicated than it is. If the entity is placed in the app folder, it will be done automatically, and you don't have to worry about DMSS

3) Start running the job: this is done by calling the "start" endpoint in the dm-job API with the address to the job entity as a URL parameter.

## JobHandler file
The JobHandler file (`__init__.py`) has the following structure:

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python title="__init__.py"
```

```

A few important things to note:

> - A defined variable called `_SUPPORTED_TYPE` decides what JobHandler to use for a given job entity. 

Reviewer: I don't understand this

Author: tried to simplify the explanation

Reviewer: That helped!

This is the same as the runner type in the job entity.
- The JobHandlerInterface and Job class are defined in dm-job repository.
- To access the job entity, use `self.job.entity`
- - `self.job.entity.applicationInput` is used for supplying inputs to the job. For example, you can include inputs to calculations.
- - `self.job.entity.outputTarget` is used for defining where the result of the job should be stored.
- The file must have name `__init__.py`

Also, the file must be available as a file in the dm-job container.
For example, if you want to add a new job to the [dm-core-packages repository](https://github.com/equinor/dm-core-packages), you would create your JobHandler file inside the dm-core-packages repository and make it available for the dm-job API.¨¨

This can be achieved by using docker volumes. 
For example, in the [docker-compose file in dm-core-packages](https://github.com/equinor/dm-core-packages/blob/main/example/docker-compose.yaml), 

> docker volume is used to "copy" the content of `dm-core-packages/example/job_handlers` into the folder `dm-job/src/job_handler_plugins`.

Reviewer: This could be rephrased. Perhaps start by saying that this is done automatically if you place the init file in the correct folder, and then explain the logic of how that works afterwards

      "type": "dmss://system/SIMOS/Reference",
      "referenceType": "link",
      "address": "dmss://DataSource/$123-123"
    },
    "runner": {
      "type": "dmss://DataSource/apps/MySignalApp/models/SignalGeneratorJob"
    },
    "started": "Not started"
  }
```
The most important attributes: 
- status: what is the status of the job: registered, not starting, running, failed, completed, removed or unknown. 
- triggeredBy: who started the job
- outputTarget: defines where to place the result of the job after the job is complete. Normally an address to some entity.
- applicationInput: is a link reference to another entity that can be of any type (but have to be an object). This is an entity that is sent in with the job, so this entity is directly available  
inside the start() function in the JobHandler file.
- runner: Has information needed to run the job. For example what container image to use, environment variables and so on. The type of this attribute should extend from `dmss://WorkflowDS/Blueprints/JobHandler`. 
- started: the time when the job is started.

## Different kinds of jobs

Jobs are divided into two main categories, based of how they are executed:

> - locally in the instance / deployment of the dm-job API, either as a "container job" or a "regular job". For container jobs, the job entity's runner type should extend from the  `Container` blueprint from dm-job. For regular jobs, the job entity's runner type should extend from the `JobHandler` blueprint from dm-job.

Reviewer: So a Container job spins up its own container, right? While the regular job runs in the existing job container?

Author: yep!
